# [142. Linked List Cycle II](https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-cycle-ii/description/)

## Description

Given a linked list, return the node where the cycle begins. If there is no cycle, return `null`.

**Note:** Do not modify the linked list.

**Follow up:**

Can you solve it without using extra space?

## Idea

First, we should determine that there exists a cycle like the problem [141. Linked List Cycle](http://leanote.com/blog/post/5b0215bbab644119e300029a). After this job done, we need to find the entry of the cycle. Let me show you an interesting **fact** that the pointer moves slower, one step every time, is `a` steps far from the entry, where `a` is the number of nodes before entering the cycle.

Denote the pointer which moves slower as `one`, and the pointer which moves faster as `two`. Denote the length of the cycle as `b`, and the number of nodes before the entry of the cycle as `a`.

Then, after we are sure there exists a cycle, suppose that pointer `one` has moved `x` steps, then `x = a + y`, where `y` is the steps which pointer `one` moves in the cycle. Subsequently, pointer `two` moves `2x` steps. As we all know, the two pointers meet each other, then we have `2x - x = nb`, where `n` means pointer `two` is ahead of pointer `one` by `n` cycles. Well, `x = nb` and `x = a + y`, we will get `y = nb - a`. Do you exactly understand what this expression shows? Yes, it means if the pointer `one` moves another `a` steps, it will be at the entry of the cycle.

Wait, we don't know the value of `a`! However, it doesn't matter, we can create another pointer, let it moves from head and moves one step every time. When it meets pointer `one`, then we get the entry node of the cycle.

## Solution

### C++

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(NULL) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode *detectCycle(ListNode *head) {
        if (head == NULL || head->next == NULL || head->next->next == NULL) {
            return NULL;
        }
        ListNode *one = head->next, *two = head->next->next;
        while (one != two) {
            if (two->next == NULL || two->next->next == NULL) {
                return NULL;
            }
            one = one->next;
            two = two->next->next;
        }
        
        ListNode *res = head;
        while (res != one) {
            res = res->next;
            one = one->next;
        }
        
        return res;
    }
};
```