# [877. Stone Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/stone-game/description/)

## Description

Alex and Lee play a game with piles of stones.  There are an even number of piles **arranged in a row**, and each pile has a positive integer number of stones `piles[i]`.

The objective of the game is to end with the most stones.  The total number of stones is odd, so there are no ties.

Alex and Lee take turns, with Alex starting first.  Each turn, a player takes the entire pile of stones from either the beginning or the end of the row.  This continues until there are no more piles left, at which point the person with the most stones wins.

Assuming Alex and Lee play optimally, return `True` if and only if Alex wins the game.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** [5,3,4,5] <br>
**Output:** true <br>
**Explanation:** <br>
Alex starts first, and can only take the first 5 or the last 5. <br>
Say he takes the first 5, so that the row becomes [3, 4, 5]. <br>
If Lee takes 3, then the board is [4, 5], and Alex takes 5 to win with 10 points. <br>
If Lee takes the last 5, then the board is [3, 4], and Alex takes 4 to win with 9 points. <br>
This demonstrated that taking the first 5 was a winning move for Alex, so we return true.

**Note:**

1. `2 <= piles.length <= 500`
2. `piles.length` is even.
3. `1 <= piles[i] <= 500`
4. `sum(piles)` is odd.


## Idea

In the condition that the `piles.length` is even, Alex will always win. That's because Alex can always pick odd piles or even piles. For example, If Alex wants to pick even indexed `piles piles[0], piles[2], ....., piles[n-2]`, he picks first `piles[0]`, then Lee can pick either `piles[1]` or `piles[n - 1]`. Every turn, Alex can always pick even indexed piles and Lee can only pick odd indexed piles. We know from description that `sum(piles)` is odd, then if `sum(odd) > sum(even)`, Alex just picks all odd and wins. Otherwise, Alex just picks all even and wins. And in this question, just return `true` and will pass the tests.

But what if the length is not always even? What if we want to know the exact difference of score? Then we need dp indeed.

Maintain a 2D array dp and `dp[i][j]` means the biggest number of stone you can get more than opponent picking piles in `piles[i] ~ piles[j]`. You can pick `piles[i]` or `piles[j]` each time. Then:

1. If you pick `piles[i]`, the result will be `piles[i] - dp[i + 1][j]`
2. If you pick `piles[j]`, the result will be `piles[j] - dp[i][j - 1]`

Thus, `dp[i][j]` = `max(piles[i] - dp[i + 1][j], piles[j] - dp[i][j - 1])`.

## Solution

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool stoneGame(vector<int>& piles) {
        // or just return true;
        int n = piles.size();
        vector<vector<int>> dp(n, vector<int>(n, 0));
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            dp[i][i] = piles[i];
        }
        for (int i = 1; i < n; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < i; ++j) {
                dp[j][i] = max(piles[j] - dp[j + 1][i], piles[i] - dp[j][i - 1]);
            }
        }
        return dp[0][n - 1] > 0;
    }
};
```

We should notice that we only use the two values `dp[j + 1][i]` and `dp[j][i - 1]`, and this 2D version code can be improved to 1D.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool stoneGame(vector<int>& piles) {
        int n = piles.size();
        vector<int> dp(piles);
        for (int i = 1; i < n; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < i; ++j) {
                dp[j] = max(piles[j] - dp[j + 1], piles[i] - dp[j]);
            }
        }
        return dp[n - 1] > 0;
    }
};
```